HACKING.md, before:

Hacking wpantund
================

## Prerequisite Knowledge ##

The wfantund project is based on wpantund project which makes heavy use of the following:

* [Protothreads](http://dunkels.com/adam/pt/)
* [`boost::any`](http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_57_0/doc/html/any.html)
* [`boost::signals2`](http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_51_0/doc/html/signals2.html)

Understanding what these are and how they work are critical to being able to
successfully work on WFAN Tunnel Driver.


## General Project Structure ##

There are give types of code in this project:

1.  Third-party code - Always contained in the `third_party`
    directory.
2.  Separable Utilities - There are stand-alone utilities that are
    generally useful and may be easily used by other projects. These
    are in the `src/utils` directory.
3.  Fundamental Utilities - These are utilitity classes and functions
    which are specific to WPAN Tunnel Driver, but used by both
    application-specific and modem-specific classes. These can be
    found in `src/utils` and `src/wpantund`.
4.  Application Specific - There are classes which define the basic
    structure of the application. These are found in `src/wpantund`.
5.  Modem Specific - These are classes that are specific to individual
    NCP implementations. These are found in specific subdirectories.
    For example, `src/ncp-spinel`.

There are three primary application-level virtual base classes in
wpantund:

 *  `NCPControlInterface`
 *  `NCPInstance`
 *  `IPCServer`

The `NCPControlInterface` is the interface through which all
operations on an NCP are preformed, with the exception of sending and
receiving packets on the network. For example, if you want to form or
join a network, you do so via the virtual methods of this class.

The `NCPInstance` class represents a NCP. The methods of this class
are use by WPAN Tunnel Driver for low-level configuration and setup of
the NCP. The `NCPInstance` class offers the `NCPControlInterface`
object which is used to interact with this specific NCP. Generally,
NCP implementations use this class for setting up the `TUN` interface,
framing/unframing data and management packets, etc.

The `IPCServer` class exposes the methods from the
`NCPControlInterface` class via an unspecified IPC mechanism (DBus is
currently the only sublass implemented).

## Fuzzing ##

Wpantund comes with some fuzz targets which can be enabled with the
`--enable-fuzz-targets` configure script argument. It currently relies
on the use of [clang][1] and requres [libFuzzer][2], although the
targets could easily be modified for use with other fuzzing engines.

There are currently two targets, but more may be added in the future:

* `src/wpantund/wpantund-fuzz`: For general high-level fuzzing.
* `src/ncp-spinel/ncp-spinel-fuzz`: For spinel-specific fuzzing.

A corpus for each fuzz test is stored in `etc/fuzz-corpus/wpantund`
and `etc/fuzz-corpus/ncp-spinel` respectively. This corpus will eventually
be used as a part of unit testing to help prevent regressions.

Wpantund wasn't initially designed with efficient fuzzing in mind, and
so changes will have to be made to improve fuzzability going forward.
If you write new code which touches or parses untrusted data, then it
is expected that you will add it to the appropriate fuzz target or
add a new fuzz target for it.

[1]: https://clang.llvm.org/
[2]: http://llvm.org/docs/LibFuzzer.html

Commit message:

TI Wi-SUN FAN Linux GW release 01-00-05. This release will match the CC13XX-26XX version 6.30.xx.xx SDK with Wi-SUN-01-00-05 embedded Software component. Key updates with this version: - A new React JS based front end that supports Wi-SUN Web GUI allowing Configuration, LED control for out-of-box example & Ping test through Webserver GUI - An additional Java Script based interface to communicate to wfantund daemon using the Linux dbus service For more information refer to https://www.ti.com/wireless-connectivity/wi-sun/overview.html and https://www.ti.com/tool/download/SIMPLELINK-CC13XX-CC26XX-SDK

HACKING.md, after:

Hacking wpantund
================

## Prerequisite Knowledge ##

The wfantund project is based on wpantund project which makes heavy use of the following:

* [Protothreads](http://dunkels.com/adam/pt/)
* [`boost::any`](http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_57_0/doc/html/any.html)
* [`boost::signals2`](http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_51_0/doc/html/signals2.html)

Understanding what these are and how they work are critical to being able to
successfully work on WFAN Tunnel Driver.


## General Project Structure ##

There are give types of code in this project:

1.  Third-party code - Always contained in the `third_party`
    directory.
2.  Separable Utilities - There are stand-alone utilities that are
    generally useful and may be easily used by other projects. These
    are in the `src/utils` directory.
3.  Fundamental Utilities - These are utilitity classes and functions
    which are specific to WPAN Tunnel Driver, but used by both
    application-specific and modem-specific classes. These can be
    found in `src/utils` and `src/wpantund`.
4.  Application Specific - There are classes which define the basic
    structure of the application. These are found in `src/wpantund`.
5.  Modem Specific - These are classes that are specific to individual
    NCP implementations. These are found in specific subdirectories.
    For example, `src/ncp-spinel`.

There are three primary application-level virtual base classes in
wpantund:

 *  `NCPControlInterface`
 *  `NCPInstance`
 *  `IPCServer`

The `NCPControlInterface` is the interface through which all
operations on an NCP are preformed, with the exception of sending and
receiving packets on the network. For example, if you want to form or
join a network, you do so via the virtual methods of this class.

The `NCPInstance` class represents a NCP. The methods of this class
are use by WPAN Tunnel Driver for low-level configuration and setup of
the NCP. The `NCPInstance` class offers the `NCPControlInterface`
object which is used to interact with this specific NCP. Generally,
NCP implementations use this class for setting up the `TUN` interface,
framing/unframing data and management packets, etc.

The `IPCServer` class exposes the methods from the
`NCPControlInterface` class via an unspecified IPC mechanism (DBus is
currently the only sublass implemented).

## Developer Debugging ##

To make wfantund debugging easier, in 
`<project-root>/ncp-spinel/SpinelNCPInstance-DataPump.cpp` a temporary
output file can be created to display the hex bytes to be sent over UART
to the NCP. To utilize this file dump, the MACRO SPINEL_DATA_DUMP_TO_FILE
needs to be set to 1.

## Fuzzing ##

Wpantund comes with some fuzz targets which can be enabled with the
`--enable-fuzz-targets` configure script argument. It currently relies
on the use of [clang][1] and requres [libFuzzer][2], although the
targets could easily be modified for use with other fuzzing engines.

There are currently two targets, but more may be added in the future:

* `src/wpantund/wpantund-fuzz`: For general high-level fuzzing.
* `src/ncp-spinel/ncp-spinel-fuzz`: For spinel-specific fuzzing.

A corpus for each fuzz test is stored in `etc/fuzz-corpus/wpantund`
and `etc/fuzz-corpus/ncp-spinel` respectively. This corpus will eventually
be used as a part of unit testing to help prevent regressions.

Wpantund wasn't initially designed with efficient fuzzing in mind, and
so changes will have to be made to improve fuzzability going forward.
If you write new code which touches or parses untrusted data, then it
is expected that you will add it to the appropriate fuzz target or
add a new fuzz target for it.

[1]: https://clang.llvm.org/
[2]: http://llvm.org/docs/LibFuzzer.html
